We just looked at
how dynamic programming can
be used to iteratively
evaluate a policy.
We hinted that this
was the first step
towards the control task,
or the goal is to
improve a policy.
In this video, we'll finally
explain how this works.
By the end of this video,
you will be able to understand
the policy improvement theorem,
and how it can be used to
construct improved policies,
and use the value function for
a policy to produce
a better policy.
Previously, we showed
that given v star,
we can find the optimal policy
by choosing the Greedy action.
The Greedy action maximizes
the Bellman's optimality
equation in each state.
Imagine instead of
the optimal value function,
we select an action which
is greedy with respect to
the value function v Pi of
an arbitrary policy Pi.
What can we say about
this new policy?
That it is greedy
with respect to v Pi.
The first thing to note is that
this new policy must
be different than Pi.
If this greedification
doesn't change Pi,
then Pi was already greedy with
respect to its own
value function.
This is just another way
of saying that v
Pi obeys the Bellman's
optimality equation.
In which case, Pi
is already optimal.
In fact, the new
policy obtained in
this way must be
a strict improvement on Pi,
unless Pi was already optimal.
This is a consequence
of a general result
called the policy
improvement theorem.
Recall the definition of q Pi.
It tells you the value of
a state if you take action A,
and then follow policy Pi.
Imagine we take action A
according to Pi prime,
and then follow policy Pi.
If this action has higher value
than the action under Pi,
then Pi prime must be better.
The policy improvement theorem
formalizes this idea.
Policy Pi prime is
at least as good
as Pi if in each state,
the value of the action
selected by Pi prime is greater
than or equal to the value of
the action selected by Pi.
Policy pi prime is
strictly better if
the value is strictly greater
and at least one state.
Let's see how this works
on the four-by-four grid
rolled we use previously.
Here's the final value
function we found.
Remember that this is
the value function
for the uniform random policy.
Now, what might the greedy
Pi policy look like?
In each state, we need to
select the action that
leads to the next state
with the highest value.
In this case, the value
that is least negative.
Here's Pi prime.
This is quite different from
the uniform random policy
we started with.
Know that the value
shown here do not
correspond to the values
for Pi prime.
The new policy is guaranteed
to be an improvement on
the uniform random
policy we started
with according to
the policy improvement theorem.
In fact, if you look more
closely at the new policy,
we can see that it
is in fact optimal.
In every state,
the chosen actions
lie on the shortest path
to the terminal state.
Remember, the value
function we started with
was not the optimal
value function,
and yet the greedy policy with
respect to v Pi is optimal.
More generally, the policy
improvement theorem only
guarantees that the new policy
is an improvement
on the original.
We cannot always expect to find
the optimal policy so easily.
That's it for this video.
You should now understand that
the policy improvement theorem
tells us that
greedified pi policy
is a strict improvement,
unless the original policy
was already optimal.
You should also now know how
to use the value function
under a given policy to produce
a strictly better policy.
Next time, we will discuss how
to use this result to create
an iterative dynamic
programming algorithm to
find the optimal policy.
See you then.